Scenario
Little Lemon needs you to help them to build a Booking System so that their guests can book tables with the restaurant. Use your knowledge of database clients to help Little Lemon complete this task.


Prerequisites
To complete this task, you need to create a folder and then open a command prompt at that location. Next, to start writing code to create the booking system, you first need to ensure that you have Python installed, a working IDE and configured a driver that you can use to interact with your database.


Task Instructions
Complete the following tasks to set up the client project.


Task 1
Your first task is to navigate to your terminal and ensure that Python is installed and available on the command path. To complete this task, type the following syntax:

1
python --version

This should display the version number of the python installed. Your OS should be running Python version 3. If faced with an earlier version of Python, or a command not found message, navigate to 
https://www.python.org/downloads/
 for instructions on how to configure and install an appropriate version for your operating system. 


Task 2
Having established that an up-to date version of python is installed on your machine you will need to install Jupyter. You can install Jupyter using the following code: 

1
python -m pip install jupyter

Once Jupyter is installed, you can open a notebook by typing the following command in the terminal:

1
jupyter notebook 

Once you’ve opened Jupyter, you then need to create a new notebook for writing your code by clicking new and then selecting ipykernel. This action creates a new notebook from which you can compile code.


Task 3
Your third and final task is to establish a connection between Python and your database using the following steps:


Step One: 

Ensure that mysql-connector is installed by running the command:

1
!pip install mysql-connector-python

Step Two: 

Import the connector under the alias connector:

1
import mysql.connector as connector

Step Three: 

Verify that a connection can be made with your database by calling the connection method from the connector class: 

1
connection = connector.connect(user = "your_user_name", password = "your_password_for_database")

